hosts/plover/README.adoc, before:

= Plover, the general-purpose server

This is Plover, a configuration meant to be used in a low-powered general-purpose machine.
It isn't much of an instance to be seriously used yet but hopefully it is getting there.

This configuration is expected to be deployed in a Google Compute instance.

It has a reasonable set of assumptions to keep in mind when modifying this configuration:

- Most of the defaults are left to the link:https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/tree/f92201f46109aabbbf41b8dc24bb9d342eb93a35/nixos/modules/virtualisation[image profiles from nixpkgs] including networking options and filesystems.
- No additional storage drives.
- At least 32 GB of space is assumed.

Some of the self-hosted services from this server:

* An nginx server which will make tie all of the self-hosted services together.
* A link:https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden[Vaultwarden] instance for a little password management.
* A link:https://gitea.io/[Gitea] instance for my personal projects.




== Deploying it as a Google Compute instance

Some documented guidelines to deploy this instance in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) so you won't have to re-read those documentation like a stuck rat the next time you visit them.

* A GCP Compute Instance image of the configuration is available to be stored at your storage buckets.
You can simply build it at `packages.plover-gce` and store it there.
+
You can take it further automating it by running link:../../scripts/generate-and-upload-gce-image[`../../scripts/generate-and-upload-gce-image`] which is just a modified version of the link:https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/ebdafd7244832f1f52cacd3eda39f2156988957e/nixos/maintainers/scripts/gce/create-gce.sh[`create-gce.sh` script from nixpkgs].

* If you already have access to at least one GCP KMS key, then skip this part.
Add a key to be used for deployment to wherever relevant file in the link:./secrets[secrets directory]. footnote:[Of course, you need previous keys which you're likely using the private age key for this system.]
For this, you'll have to create a GCP keyring on their key management system (KMS) and generate a key there.

* Enable link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/oslogin/set-up-oslogin[OS Login] for your Compute Engine instance.

* Don't forget to set the appropriate scopes for the instance.
For example, since we're using a GCP KMS key, we may want to set the scope only to KMS API like in the following command.
+
--
[source, shell]
----
gcloud compute instances create "instance-1" \
    --zone "us-east1-b" \
    --scopes "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloudkms"
----
--

* Reserve a static IP address, pls.
Just don't forget to immediately assign it to the instance since it will charge higher if you just leave it alone.

* Creating a dedicated link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts[service account] for the VM is recommended.
Just make sure to set the least amount of privileges for that account.

Commit message:

hosts/plover: update config
In preparation of deploying it in a non-Google Compute Engine
environment, we'll update some of the settings.

hosts/plover/README.adoc, after:

= Plover, the general-purpose server

This is Plover, a configuration meant to be used in a low-powered general-purpose machine.
It isn't much of an instance to be seriously used yet but hopefully it is getting there.

This configuration is expected to be deployed in a Google Compute instance.

It has a reasonable set of assumptions to keep in mind when modifying this configuration:

- Most of the defaults are left to the link:https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/tree/f92201f46109aabbbf41b8dc24bb9d342eb93a35/nixos/modules/virtualisation[image profiles from nixpkgs] including networking options and filesystems.
- No additional storage drives.
- At least 32 GB of space is assumed.

Some of the self-hosted services from this server:

* An nginx server which will make tie all of the self-hosted services together.
* A link:https://github.com/dani-garcia/vaultwarden[Vaultwarden] instance for a little password management.
* A link:https://gitea.io/[Gitea] instance for my personal projects.




== General deployment guidelines

If you want to deploy it anywhere else, you have to keep some things in mind.

* This uses link:https://github.com/mozilla/sops[sops] and link:https://github.com/Mic92/sops-nix[sops-nix] to decrypt secrets.
It mainly use the private key to the link:./files/age-key.pub[`./files/age-key.pub`] and move it to the appropriate location (i.e., `/var/lib/sops-nix/key.txt`).

* Be sure to set the appropriate firewalls either in the NixOS configuration or in the VPS provider firewall settings.
Take note some formats such as Google Compute image disable them entirely so it's safer to leave the firewall service and just configure the allowed ports and other settings.




== Deploying it as a Google Compute instance

Some documented guidelines to deploy this instance in Google Cloud Platform (GCP) so you won't have to re-read those documentation like a stuck rat the next time you visit them.

* A GCP Compute Instance image of the configuration is available to be stored at your storage buckets.
You can simply build it at `packages.plover-gce` and store it there.
+
You can take it further automating it by running link:../../scripts/generate-and-upload-gce-image[`../../scripts/generate-and-upload-gce-image`] which is just a modified version of the link:https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/blob/ebdafd7244832f1f52cacd3eda39f2156988957e/nixos/maintainers/scripts/gce/create-gce.sh[`create-gce.sh` script from nixpkgs].

* If you already have access to at least one GCP KMS key, then skip this part.
Add a key to be used for deployment to wherever relevant file in the link:./secrets[secrets directory]. footnote:[Of course, you need previous keys which you're likely using the private age key for this system.]
For this, you'll have to create a GCP keyring on their key management system (KMS) and generate a key there.

* Enable link:https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/oslogin/set-up-oslogin[OS Login] for your Compute Engine instance.

* Enable HTTP and HTTPS traffic in the firewall settings.

* Don't forget to set the appropriate scopes for the instance.
Use the least privileged scopes as much as possible.

* Reserve a static IP address, pls.
Just don't forget to immediately assign it to the instance since it will charge higher if you just leave it alone.

* Creating a dedicated link:https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts[service account] for the VM is recommended.
Just make sure to set the least amount of privileges for that account.
