docs/content/en-US/02-lay-of-the-land/01-prerequisites/index.adoc, before:

---
title: Prerequisites
---
= Prerequisites

Before you get into dive into this configuration, let's establish a few things first.
In order to make use of this system in the first place, you need the following components.

- A NixOS installer image with flakes enabled.
An example would be the unstable versions from link:https://releases.nixos.org/?prefix=nixos/unstable/[NixOS project release page].
As an additional option, you can also use link:https://github.com/foo-dogsquared/nixos-config/releases/tag/latest[my personalized NixOS installers] which is primarily intended for me configs.

- A flash drive or any storage device that will boot the installer image up for installation.

- A computer with disabled secure boot.
Because unfortunately, that's the state of most Linux distros right now. footnote:[But things change hopefully with github:nix-community/lanzaboote[Lanzaboote project] into usable and stable state.]

This primarily uses Nix flakes so you can have a preview of what's available in my config.

[source, shell, subs=attributes]
----
nix flake show {canonical-flake-url}
----

All you have to do is to flash the installer image into the flash drive and boot with the drive (with the disabled secure boot).
Then run the following command in the shell as root.

[source, shell, subs=attributes]
----
nixos-install --flake {canonical-flake-url}#INSTALLABLE
----

Take note most systems have an additional prerequisites such as activating xref:../../04-nixos-modules/03-disko/index.adoc[disko modules] and the private keys that are missing (and other stuff as mentioned from xref:../05-what-should-not-be-here/index.adoc[What should not be here?]).

Despite being a NixOS system, it isn't entirely reproducible to the point of installing this config will work out-of-the-box.
It has some things needed in the first place to work like my external backup setup where it needs my SSH private keys to work in the first place.
You can see more details from xref:../05-what-should-not-be-here/index.adoc[What should not be here?].
Nonetheless, the parts is it isn't reproducible is only about 10% of this config.
Everything else is fine and dandy and can be deployed successfully (but not used as intended).

Commit message:

docs/site: add more steps for "Prerequisites" chapter

docs/content/en-US/02-lay-of-the-land/01-prerequisites/index.adoc, after:

---
title: Prerequisites
---
= Prerequisites

Before you get into dive into this configuration, let's establish a few things first.
In order to make use of this system in the first place, you need the following components.

- A NixOS installer image with flakes enabled.
An example would be the unstable versions from link:https://releases.nixos.org/?prefix=nixos/unstable/[NixOS project release page].
As an additional option, you can also use link:https://github.com/foo-dogsquared/nixos-config/releases/tag/latest[my personalized NixOS installers] which is primarily intended for me configs.

- A flash drive or any storage device that will boot the installer image up for installation.

- A computer with disabled secure boot.
Because unfortunately, that's the state of most Linux distros right now. footnote:[But things change hopefully with github:nix-community/lanzaboote[Lanzaboote project] into usable and stable state.]

This primarily uses Nix flakes so you can have a preview of what's available in my config.

[source, shell, subs=attributes]
----
nix flake show {canonical-flake-url}
----

All you have to do is to flash the installer image into the flash drive and boot with the drive (with the disabled secure boot).

[NOTE]
====
For this example, we'll assume you're installing my desktop configuration which is at `nixosConfigurations.ni`.
====

Next, we'll partition the disk of the system.
This is already handled for us since this project uses xref:../../04-nixos-modules/03-disko/index.adoc[disko modules].
Just run the following command as root.

[source, shell]
----
nix run github:nix-community/disko -- --mode disko ./hosts/ni/disko.nix --arg disks '[ "/dev/nvme0n1" ]'
----

Then install the NixOS configuration (also as root).

[source, shell, subs=attributes]
----
nixos-install --flake {canonical-flake-url}#INSTALLABLE
----

Despite being a NixOS system, it isn't entirely reproducible to the point of installing this config will work out-of-the-box.
It has some things needed in the first place to work like my external backup setup where it needs my SSH private keys to work in the first place.
You can see more details from xref:../05-what-should-not-be-here/index.adoc[What should not be here?].
Nonetheless, the parts is it isn't reproducible is only about 10% of this config.
Everything else is fine and dandy and can be deployed successfully (but not used as intended).
